Now let's start with uploading files and there, we have a really great use case and that of course
is that when we add a new product, we right now always have to enter a url. That is not a very realistic
set up because in a real world application, your users who are trying to sell things will probably
not have pictures of their products stored somewhere in the web,
so we definitely want to give our users the possibility of uploading images and that is exactly what
I'll work on now. Adding file upload means that we have to do two things,
the first thing is that we need to adjust our form here to show a file picker to our users,
so a tool which they can use to well select a file on their operating system on their computer.
And then the second part is that we need to be able to accept that file in the place where we well handle
it, where we handle the incoming requests.
Now let's start with the form and let's add a file picker there.
So we'll dive into our views and there it's in the admin section, the edit product.ejs
file, there we will have our image
url control, this one and in the end,
this image url should now become a file picker. For that, I'll
copy this old block and comment it out
so that we still have it around in case we need it later
but this will now become a new image uploader.
There I'll just have image as a label.
Now that class here where I try to mark this as invalid, I'll remove that because we'll not have an input
where we would add a red border around, the type here will be changed to file, the name I'll change
that to image and I'll change the ID too, also up here therefore
and now the value with which I'll pre-populate this,
I'll remove that because even if we're editing this, I will always present an empty file picker and
we'll just have to tweak our backend logic later
so that when we're editing this and we're not sending a new file, we simply keep the old one and we overwrite
the old one if we do send a new one
but for now I'll simply set up my file input like this.
Now if I save that and I reload this page,
now we have our file picker here which is a default html element and
if we click it, we can select a file like this boat here, you can pick any file, it should be an image
of course.
So now I have chosen that and now if I would enter the rest and add this product, we would fail because
right now we got no logic in place to handle an incoming file, to store it or to do anything with it
and this is the part we'll have to adjust now.
So in the next lecture, I want to make sure that we can handle incoming files just as well as incoming text
which we previously always accepted.